# Dali - a rendering library for fast digital painting
**Dali** is a rendering library that creates high quality digital paintings.
 
**Dali** renders a painting by combining texture and color from many source images.

### Getting Started
You can run the example with:
`cargo run --release --example example`

### How it works...

#### Canvas
The **canvas** is a target image, which consists of many **layers**.  
Each layer binds a **colormap**, which is then rendered against with a **stipple** texture.

#### Colormaps
Colormaps are target images that each stipple uses for color sampling.  

The colormap is what your painting will look like.

#### Stipples
Stipples produce **texture**.  Stipples combine a greyscale texture with the colormap to 
render the output image.  

Stipple textures can be:
 - translated, 
 - scaled
 - rotated about their center
 - deformed by scaling the colormap about the stipple center

Stipples use the **colormap** to sample color.  This sampling occurs in canvas coordinates, which is 
a different reference frame than the stipple texture!  Critically, _colormap sampling can be scaled
 with reference to the center of the stipple in canvas coordinates_.  This allows a continuous 
 deformation of the colormap image - from 1.0 as a straight copy to 0.0 as a single color.
 
Intricate textures are generated from many interleaved stipples, each rendering a scaled down version of the colormap.

Intricate colors can be generated by interleaving layers.

#### Rendering
Dali uses [luminance-rs](https://github.com/phaazon/luminance-rs) as a graphics backend.  

The vertex/fragment shaders are stipple-vs.glsl and stipple-fs.glsl

#### License
Dali is licensed under Apache 2.0.

#### Status

Dali is in active development, but is not yet not yet 1.0.  In particular, the fragment shader is still in progress, 